Now, it's going get more interesting because we have to talk about Internet access,
and let's do that right now.
So as we have said,
a Virtual Private Cloud or VPC is a networking container,
and this is what we're looking at right now.
Now, it is completely isolated from the world,
from everything, there's no way to get in here.
So how is something public if we can't access,
right? It doesn't make sense.
So I'm going to do is,
I am going to introduce you to a service here called an internet gateway.
The internet gateway, what it does is,
we're going to put it in right here at the edge of our VPC.
The Internet gateway provides inbound and outbound traffic to your VPC.
That doesn't mean everybody can get in just yet,
we're going to get to that part,
but we need this component to be able to access the VPC.
Obviously, it doesn't make sense if you create resources in data center that belongs
to Amazon Web Services somewhere if you cannot access that from your company, right?
There's no sense there.
So the internet gateway is going provide us the way to go in and out.
Now you may ask yourself,
what if I have only private resources in this Cloud?
Could I use the Cloud if I don't have anything to share with the public?
Let's say that I'm running a human resources application,
something internal and specific that only
belongs to your internal company and may not be shared with anybody else,
can I still use the Cloud in this case?
The answer is yes,
you would not have an internet gateway,
you will probably have a VPN connection or a direct connect connection into your Cloud.
Direct connect is a service that you can buy directly from
Amazon or directly from a telecom provider.
You can reach out to a telecom provider and they'll put
a physical line from your office to
the Cloud and that will give you a complete security because there's no
going through public internet traffic in any way,
you will have complete access to your Cloud
and it would only be routable using internal private IP addresses.
There will be no public IP addresses so it's impossible to reach from the outside.
But in our case, the one that we are designing here,
we're going to have public web servers so we need an internet gateway so that we can put
those servers in a place where they can access and be accessed from the outside world.
Now, we're facing a little problem here.
If we wanted to provide internet access to our private servers, how do we do that?
Because those servers may need to download
software patches or configuration changes that come from the public internet.
In fact, Amazon services such as S3 which is the storage service,
is actually a public service which means
that if you want to access that from your private subnet,
you need a way to get out and be able to access.
So even though we're calling them private,
whatever you put in there,
still needs to have a way to have outbound internet access.
Let's take a look at that now.